Domain Controller Synchronization
Another way to achieve persistence
in an Active Directory infrastructure
is to steal the password hashes for all
administrative users in the domain.
There are several ways we could do this.
We could move laterally to
the domain controller
and run Mimikatz to dump
the password hash of every user.
We could also steal a copy
of the NTDS.dit database file,
which is a copy of all Active Directory
accounts stored on the hard drive.
While these methods might work fine,
they leave indicators of compromise
and may require us to upload tools.
Another option is to abuse
AD functionality itself
and capture hashes remotely
from a workstation.
In production environments, domains
typically have more than one
domain controller to
provide redundancy.
The Directory Replication
Service Remote Protocol
uses replication to synchronize
the domain controllers.
A domain controller may request
an update for a specific object,
like an account, with a specific API.
Fortunately for us, when a request is
received for an update, the domain
controller does not verify that it came
from another known domain controller.
It only verifies that the associated
SID has the correct privileges.
If we attempt to issue a rogue
update request to a domain controller
from a user who is a member of the
Domain Admins group, it will succeed.
Let’s log in to the Windows 10 client as
jeff_admin to simulate a compromise
of a domain administrator account
and perform a replication.
We’ll run Mimikatz,
and start the replication
using lsadump::dcsync,
with the /user option to indicate
the target user to sync,
in this case the built-in domain
administrator account.
The dump contains multiple hashes
associated with the last twenty-nine
used user passwords,
as well as the hashes used
with AES encryption.
Using this technique, we can request a
replication update with a
domain controller and obtain the
password hashes of every account
in Active Directory without ever
logging in to the domain controller.